cinema synopses spoiler alert two years
after the Battle of New York Steve
Rogers works in Washington DC for the
espionage agency shield under director
Nick Fury while adjusting to
contemporary society Rogers and agent
Natasha Romanov sent with shields
counterterrorism strike team led by
agent
rumlow target is a mobile satellite
launch flash to free hostages aboard a
shield vessel from Georgia back hook and
his mercenaries at the top of indication
mid-mission Rogers Discovery's Romanoff
has another agenda to extract data from
the ship's computers for fury you just
jeopardized his whole operation Rogers
returns to the Triskelion shields
headquarters to confront fury those
hospitals and is briefed about project
insight
this is project insight 3 helicarrier's
linked to spy satellites designed to
preemptively eliminate threats these new
long-range precision gun unable to
decrypt the data recovered by romanov
fury becomes suspicious about insight
and asks senior shield official
Alexander Pierce to delay the project
project insight has to be delayed fine
on his way to rendezvous with Maria hill
fury is ambushed by assailant led by a
mysterious assassin called the Winter
Soldier fury escapes to Rodgers his
apartment and warns Rogers that shield
is compromised fury is gunned down by
the Winter Soldier before handing
Rodgers a flash drive containing data
from the ship
[Music]
fury is pronounced dead during surgery
and Hill recovers the body the next day
Pierce summons Rogers to the Triskelion
yeah I want you back at you when Rogers
withholds Fury's information Pierce
brands him a fugitive why was he there
he told me not to trust anyone hunted by
strike Rogers meets with Romanoff
I know who killed furious the ones that
do call him the Winter Soldier like you
said he's a ghost story using data in
the flash drive they discover a secret
shield bunker in New Jersey while posing
as an engaged couple at an Apple store
we're getting married
New Jersey where they activate a
supercomputer containing the preserved
consciousness of aliens Ola Zola reveals
that ever since shield was founded after
World War two
Hydra has secretly operated within its
ranks sewing global chaos with the
objective of making humanity willing to
surrender its freedom in exchange for
security the pair narrowly escaped death
when a shield missile destroys the
bunker and realized that Pierce is
hydras leader within shield
Rogers and Romanov enlists the help of
former United States Air Force
pararescueman Sam Wilson I'm sorry about
this we need a place to lay low
whom Rogers befriended and acquire his
powered Falcon wing pack deducing that
SHIELD agent Jasper Sitwell is a Hydra
mole tell me about Zola's algorithm
anyway did you throw me off the roof
because it's really not your style they
force him to divulge that Zola developed
a data mining algorithm that can
identify individuals who might become
future threats to hydras plans how could
it not how could it not the insight
helicarriers will sweep the globe using
satellite guided guns to eliminate these
individuals then the insight
helicarriers scratched people off the
list
Rogers Romanov and Wilson are ambushed
by the Winter Soldier who kills Sitwell
during the fight rogers recognizes the
Winter Soldier as Bucky Barnes his
friend who is captured and experimented
upon during World War two pills manages
to extract the trio to a safe house
where fury who had faked his death is
waiting with plans to sabotage the
helicarrier's are replacing their
controller chips shield Hydra it all
goes look like you giving the orders now
captain after the world security council
members arrive for the helicarriers
launch the world should be Rogers
broadcast hydras plot to everyone at the
Triskelion attention all shield agents
this is Steve Rogers I think it's time
you know the truth shield it's been
taken over by Hydra Romanoff disguised
as one of the council members disarms
Pierce
did I step on your moment fury arrives
and forces Pierce to unlock shields
database so that Romanov can leak
classified information exposing Hydra to
the public following a struggle fury
kills Pierce that was a time I would
have taken a bullet for you
you already did meanwhile Rogers and
Wilson stormed to helicarriers and
replaced the controller chips but the
Winter Soldier destroys Wilson's suit
and fights Rogers on the third time
please don't make me do this Rogers fend
him off and replaces the final chip
where are the targets allowing he'll
take control and have the vessels
destroy each other
Rogers refuses to fight the Winter
Soldier in an attempt to reach his
friend
my friend my mission but as the ship
collides with the Triskelion Rogers is
thrown out into the Potomac River
the Winter Soldier rescues the
unconscious Rogers before disappearing
into the woods
with shield and disarray Romanov appears
before a Senate subcommittee you're not
gonna put any of us in a prison because
you need us and fury under the cover of
his apparent death heads to Eastern
Europe in pursuit of hydras remaining
cells Roger and Wilson decide to find
the Winter Soldier you're going after
him while rumlow who was a double agent
for Hydra is hospitalized during the
triskelions destruction in a mid credit
scene
Baron Wolfgang von Strucker at a Hydra
lab proclaims that the stage miracles as
scientists examine an energy filled
scepter and to test subjects one with
superhuman speed the other with
telekinetic powers in a post-credits
scene the Winter Soldier visits a Bucky
Memorial at the Smithsonian Institution
keep watching for some fun Easter eggs
and trivia from Captain America the
Winter Soldier when the helicarriers are
looking for their targets on one of the
monitors there is a wireframe model of
the former stark tower in New York City
now sporting the Avengers sign in the
same image is a mugshot of Tony Stark on
the right hand side as a Hydra target
see where to parachute
no it was the scene where Captain
America jumps out of a plane without
bothering to use a parachute is an
homage to a similar scene from the first
issue of The Ultimates comic Jasper
Sitwell mentioned some high-risk targets
that Hydra is keeping tabs on among
these are Bruce Banner the Hulk dr.
Stephen strange and a man in Cairo the
latter is most likely marc spector
the Moon Knight an Avengers team member
who hasn't made it into the movies yet
the freighter Batak hijacks in the
beginning is named the Lemurian star
this is a reference to Lemuria the
sunken continent that was home of the
deviants a race of superhumans created
by Jack Kirby in dr. Zola's lair
Black Widow says this was a line taken
from wargames in 1983 which was a movie
about war simulation programs run by a
National Defense computer which almost
triggers a nuclear war Stan Lee makes
his usual cameo as a security guard at
the Smithsonian who notices the original
Captain America costume is missing and
says I
Nick Fury's grave bears the epitaph the
path of the righteous man Ezekiel 25:17
this is a favorite line of Jule's win a
field played by samuel l.jackson in the
cult classic movie Pulp Fiction in 1994
at the end of the movie Brock rumlow can
be seen burned but alive being healed by
some doctors while he is moved in an
ambulance in the comics crossbones
rumlow supervillain moniker had his face
severely burned necessitating that he
wear a mask the Winter Soldier is able
to match Captain America move by move
even to the point of catching Rogers as
shield this foreshadows Barnes taking
over as Captain America which happened
in the comics Baron von Strucker
experiments on twins with superpowers in
the comics Strucker actually subjected
his own twins Andrea and andreas to a
treatment which gave them superpowers
[Music]
you